>> Zac Gordon: Just to kind of review,
what we're going to do here is we're going
to focus first on just
enqueuing regular JavaScript.
That first step of just getting
a file to load on the page,
then we're going to look at
how to do multiple files.
Like I said, the helper and the theme and
how to make one dependent on another and
what happens when you
switch that dependency.
Then we need to talk a little bit
about my friend jQuery because
there's a little bit of stuff we have to
differently when working with jQuery.
jQuery assumes that
the dollar sign is just for
jQuery, but y'all know dollar sign is
used in a lot of different libraries.
So, we have to do what is
called a noconflict wrapper
to make sure that we know, hey,
this really is jQuery in this instance,
and there's some stuff we'll do with that.
The other cool thing that we'll realize is
WordPress includes jQuery bundled in it's
core, so anything that WordPress
uses as a JavaScript library
we can access with our own code.
So, things like masonry, jQuery,
backbone, Underscore, just to name a few.
There's some thick box and
light box stuff.
Since WordPress uses these, we don't
have to go and get our own script and
in fact,
it's a bad idea to load your own jQuery or
load anything that WordPress
is already loading.
There's also an issue when we
have external JavaScripts.
So you're familiar with loading
stuff from a CDN, for example.
The problem is is that,
if WordPress attaches a version number to
the end of a CDN URL, so
let's say we're going to myCDN slash view.
And then, it decides to add
question mark v equals 4.1.
That very well could break the URL,
and it won't load.
So I got to show you a little bit of code
that you'll need to load if you're pulling
stuff down off of the CDN directly,
if you're doing that for some reason.
There's also some times where you
don't want your java script to load
on every page.
So for example, if you're building
a custom project section, or custom
portfolio section, and you want that to
be a react app, you don't want Want your
react app loading every single page,
you just want it loading on that page.
So I'll show you some conditional
code that will let you say, Hey,
I just want my JavaScript to show up here,
and
that's gonna make everything else
around it more performative.
And finally we'll throw in that
localized scripts at the end,
passing some customed data.
A few links for you,
I will post up these slides so
that you can have them but
this is just to the straight docs.
You don't need this to do
what we're about to do, but
if wanna take it further WordPress
is pretty well documented.
Oddly, it has a code x and developer site.
So, it's kind of in the weird place
of having two documentations, but for
most of the stuff where you see
developer.wordpress.org that's
the newer stuff.
And when you see codex in the URL,
it's gonna be a little bit older, but
it might not necessarily be
outdated is kinda the tricky thing.